

Javascript is a language that gives a computer information so that it can do something. We call what we give the computer INPUT, and what it makes with our information OUTPUT. The way that we do that is by using algebra and words mixed together-sort of like a hybrid of english and math studies. When we're talking about using math or numbers in Javascript, we label the multipliers, equals, and addition/subtraction as OPERATORS, and when we're using letters in the math problems, we call them VARIABLES. Variables can also be a problem in itself. We make a variable when the computer needs to track something over time. You can think of a variable sort of like a cookie jar, and when you run code,the computer is taking various cookies out and putting different cookies in all the time, but we need the cookie jar to stay where it is on the counter instead of getting carried around the house, because it might get smashed. You can use different commands to find out what's been happening inside the cookie jar by using AMOUNT at different stages in the code (sort of like when a parent comes in and says, 'what happened here-tell me where all the cookies went!'). If your parent never wants the cookies to get eaten,and instead decay in the jar, we call it a constant and it's no fun. Constant variables can be good and comforting though-like it's nice to know that the cookie jar is there, all the cookies are stored nicely and that you won't immediately starve in the zombie apocolypse.

So we can use math in Javascript, but we can also use language to make word problems for the computer to solve. When you want to print writing within the program, you use "quotes" around it. It is called a STRING. True/false statements that the computer has to adhere to are called BOOLEANS. A 'while' type statement is asking the computer to run the code continuously,and it is called a LOOP. A CONDITIONAL is an 'if,when' style statement. Sometimes you'll need to switch between numbers and words, and doing that switch from the number into the number's spelling, or the other way around as well, is called COERCION. All of the different word/number problem combinations that we talked about are the make up of FUNCTIONS, which are the heart of your program, allowing the computer to solve complicated problems for you.